Eat (खवा) 
Basundi (बासुंदी) 
Yogurt (दही) 
Chakka (चका) 
Lassi (लस्सी) 
Filter (छन्ना) 
Cheese (पनीर) 
Rasgulla (रसगुल्ला) 
Butter Ghee (लोणी तूप) 

Milk products information...! 

Milk products

The father of white revolution, Dr. On the occasion of the birth centenary of Varghese Kurien, the Indian Dairy Association has announced to celebrate Milk Day nationally to spread the importance of milk in the diet.
Today, various Dairy Associations, Dairy Professionals, Entrepreneurs and Educational Institutions in the country celebrated the 3rd National Milk Dix on 26th November.
In Ayurveda, the unique importance of milk and dairy products in human diet has been emphasized. Milk is produced from the medicinal essence of many plants. It is absorbent, nutritious and invigorating to all animals.
Milk, protein, fats, and carbohydrates, which are essential for the growth and development of the newborn, are all balanced in milk. In addition, it helps in the development of biochemical processes
It also contains proteins (enzymes), vitamins, phospholipids, cholesterol.
Milk contains mainly casein, lactoalbulin, lactoglobulin proteins. Casein is the main constituent of milk (80%) and is in the form of Calcium compound. The protein in cow's milk is highly bio-valuable in terms of ease of growth and growth, making it a very useful food for young children. These proteins contain the right amount of all the amino acids needed to nourish the body.
The protein value of buffalo and goat milk is very similar. Due to the smoothness of the milk, especially the fat in it, the milk tastes and smells. Milk contains more than ten fatty acids. Ghee stays good for many days due to its oxidizing properties of phospholipids in milk. The fat content of milk is taken into consideration while determining the price of milk.
Lactose is the only carbohydrate found in milk except milk. Milk sugar is more important for body health. Cow's milk contains 4.9 per cent and buffalo's milk contains 5.2 per cent milk sugar. Sugar is 6 times sweeter than sugar and is a major source of physical energy. 1 gram of lactose provides 4.1 calories.
Milk and dairy products are rich in minerals and salts, mainly calcium, potassium and phosphorus. Also salts like sodium, magnesium, sulphate etc. are moderate while iron, zinc and cobalt. Leukocytes are in very small quantities. The ratio of calcium and phosphorus in milk is 1.3: 1. In addition, milk contains vitamins 'A', 'B-1', 'B-2', 'B-5', 'C', 'D', 'E' and 'K'. It contains high levels of thiamine and riboflavin.
Today, India ranks No. 1 in the world in milk production (including 132.4 MT of milk production) and is moving towards economic prosperity. But the relative availability of milk and dietary intake of milk and dairy products is very low. So make India strong and resilient by including the right amount of milk and fermented foods in your daily diet.
This milk is concentrated in the condensed milk. The fat content of the milk is reduced to less than 2 microns. Those particles do not come together again as cream. So homogenized milk tastes twenty-four sweet.

Milk products information

Eat

One of the most important dairy products is khawa. This is also called aphids. From khawa we can make (k, various types of barfi, pedha, 1 rosemary, kalakand, kunda etc.) According to the traditional method of making khowa, take milk in a pan and keep it on low flame. Stir it constantly. Assuming that the khawa is ready when it starts to separate and stick together, the average yield of khawa is 170 to 190 gm from cow's milk and 210 to 230 gm per liter from buffalo's milk. Depends on the things.

There are three types of khawi. Different foods are made according to its grade.

Pindi khowa- This type of khowa is used for making barfi and pedha.

Granulated khowa- This khowa is used for making candy.

Khawa- This type of khawa is used for making rose berries.

The taste and quality of the food depends on the khawwa used for it. The quality of khawi made using modern machine is excellent and homogeneous. It also saves time.

Basundi

Boil the milk in a stainless steel pan to make a delicious basundi for most. While the milk is boiling, keep stirring. Add 5 to 6% sugar of original milk as per your liking. Generally, 1 liter of milk contains 450 to 500 ml. Bake until milky. That is, when 50 to 55% of milk is dry, turn off the gas and keep stirring till it cools down. So that it does not get scratched again. The prepared basundi contains cashew nuts, almonds, cardamom etc. Mix and keep cool.

Basundi should be used on the day it is prepared. Basandi can stay good for 2 to 3 days if used in the fridge.

Rubber

To make rabada, take milk in a thick pan and heat it slowly over low heat. Lightly store the onions on top of the pan. The milk should not be allowed to boil for maximum creamy textureWhen the milk is 18 to 20 percent, add 5 to 6 percent sugar of the original milk. Then gently scrape the accumulated cheese on the top of the pan and cut it into small pieces. Mix these pieces in pan milk and gently stir the mixture. The finished rubber is more palatable when cooled.

Yogurt

Apply 1% of the milk taken for making curd (1 to 2 teaspoons per liter of milk). To make the best quality yogurt, you need the best quality yogurt. Use yoghurt of the previous day for detoxification. Then it is 37 degrees centigrade. Cool until.

Add virajna and mix well. Cover the pot after mixing. Yogurt usually takes 12 to 14 hours to prepare. Yogurt takes a little longer in summer and a little longer in winter. Depletion rate is higher in winter than in summer.

Chakka

To make Shrikhand Chakka, take less sour curd. First pour the yoghurt in a clean muslin cloth and tie the salsa. Leave this cloth hanging on the hook for 6 to 8 hours. Stir at half an hour interval.

So that the water in it drains properly. In this way, the solid that remains after the water is drained is called chakka.

One liter of buffalo milk yields 330 to 350 gm and cow's milk yields 200 to 250 gm. When making Shrikhand, add 70 to 80 percent powdered sugar. It contains cardamom, color as required, saffron etc. Mix. Mix well. Use a burial container for this. Add cashews, almonds etc. to your liking. Discard. Refrigerate the prepared shrikhand. Such Shrikhanda has some other value in Godadhoda's meal.

Lassi

To make lassi, take good quality sour curd. For thick creamy lassi, mix 10 to 15% water. Mix the mixture with a ravi or mixer. Add 15 to 16 percent of curd sugar as per your liking. Add salt to taste. Add cardamom powder to taste. Mix well.

On summer days, cold lassi is popular among consumers as a delicious drink. Use 10 to 15% fruit juice of curd to make fruit lassi fresh. A good creamy thick lassi can be made from buffalo milk.

Filter

To prepare the sieve, first heat the milk in a stainless steel pan. Normally 80 to 82 degrees centigrade. When the temperature rises, turn off the gas. For one liter of milk, pour a large drop of juice or 2% citric acid solution slowly till the milk breaks up. When the milk is completely broken, the yellow water and solids in it separate.

Strain the mixture through a thin muslin cloth and tie it in the same cloth for half an hour. Let the water drain automatically. The fourth layer of milk solids in a muslin cloth is called 'channa *'. One liter of cow's milk yields 220 to 240 gms. A variety of Bengali dishes are made from this basic ingredient. For this, specially made strainer made from cow's milk is used.

Cheese

The same method of sieving is used to make paneer. Good quality paneer is made from buffalo milk. When it is torn, remove it from the cloth. Then place it in a cloth in a pressure sheet with holes in the bottom or in a wooden box.

It should weigh 15 to 20 kg (2 kg per sq. Cm). So that all the water in it will evaporate. Finely chop the prepared paneer and soak it in salt water solution (4 to 5%) for 1 to 2 hours. Then keep the cheese in the fridge for hardness. Paneer prepared in this way is used in vegetables, for paneer burji.

Rasgulla

Everyone's favorite dish made from channa is to make rasgulla. Its small balls yarayesha. If they get cracked while rolling, add 5 to 8 percent flour in the sieve. Soak these balls in 55 to 60% sugar paste for 2 to 3 hours. So that they will absorb Pak. Let the rasguls cool and feed.

Butter Ghee

The basic ingredient for making ghee is butter, native butter has at least 76 to 80% fat content. However, in table butter, the proportion should be at least 80%. To make butter, the first cream (cream) is removed from the milk and the cream is bleached.

Butter from cow's milk is yellow and butter from buffalo's milk is white. Ghee is the substance which is obtained by extracting butter and dissolving the water in it completely. Ghee has been used in our country for a long time.

Ghee's place in the diet, its usefulness in daily life, its medicinal properties, etc. Our forefathers knew things from a long time ago. Therefore, there is a huge demand for Tupala here and due to this huge demand, its market share is also very large.

Although different methods are used for the production of ghee, the traditional method of making ghee is to make yoghurt by diluting the milk, removing the butter from the yoghurt or skim milk and washing the butter clean and removing all the buttermilk and then boiling it at the right temperature. And that is to make ghee from it.

This method is still widely used in our country today. However, new convenient and more profitable methods have also been developed in ghee production, using the knowledge currently available from new scientific discoveries and experiments, and the newly developed technology.

Generally, 1 kg of ghee requires 28 to 29 liters of cow's milk containing 3.5% fat and 8.5% non-fat solids and 16 to 17 liters of buffalo milk containing 6% fat and 9% non-fat solids. Tupat made from cow's or buffalo's milk has a fat content of 99.5%.

Thus various dairy products play an invaluable role in our daily diet. These substances are both nutritious and nutritious and also help the human body to absorb nutrients. Spontaneous,

These dairy products, which can be made in a simple way, can also help in making them financially strong.